Question: What unique feature does the CSP box lid include?
Correct Answer: Locks at 45

Question: What is the primary function of the CSP Demarcation Box?
Correct Answer: For installation of copper connections.

Question: How is the CSP sealed after installation is completed?
Correct Answer: The CSP seals when you close the lid.

Question: How should you mount the CSP to the customer's wall?
Correct Answer: Mount the CSP using glue.

Question: Where can you find a list of all the tools needed for the installation?
Correct Answer: Use any tools you have available.

Question: Which layer of Inside/Out cable is suitable for use outside of the customer premises?
Correct Answer: Only the outer sheathing is UV protected for use outside the customer premises.

Question: Which piece of equipment is used to manage the bend radius of the cable leading from inside to outside the dwelling?
Correct Answer: Inside/Out Cable.

Question: When measuring the length of Inside/Out cable needed for the installation what lengths need to be taken into account?
Correct Answer: Only the length from the CSP to the ONT.

Question: Where in the CSP should the outgoing Inside/Out cable slack be stored?
Correct Answer: In the inner slack storage.

Question: Which tool is used for stripping the Inside/Out Fibre Cable?
Correct Answer: An open-edged blade.

Question: If a fault is found in the Inside/Out cable during testing, what action should be taken?
Correct Answer: Proceed with the installation anyway.

Question: What does the CSP Demarcation Box use for cable retention/sealing?
Correct Answer: DexTidy cable retention system.

Question: What method is used to split the grommets?
Correct Answer: Any sharp blade can be used.

Question: What tool is used to remove the copper provisioning knockout at the back of the CSP?
Correct Answer: A Flathead screwdriver.

Question: What knockouts are available at the rear of the CSP?
Correct Answer: Copper provisioning only.

Question: If any of your tools are damaged or not in working order, what should you do?
Correct Answer: Skip the steps where the specific tool is needed.

Question: Which piece of equipment should be used to ensure the CSP is securely mounted to the wall.
Correct Answer: Glue.

Question: After the installation is finished, if the customer does NOT have a valid connection what should you do?
Correct Answer: Remove the CSP and attempt a new install.

Question: What should you do if your CSP is damaged before the installation?
Correct Answer: Proceed with the installation anyway.

Question: What do you need to check with your electrical equipment before installing a CSP?
Correct Answer: It is not necessary to check electrical equipment.

Question: Where are the copper connector cables routed?
Correct Answer: Through the small 101A hole in the rear centre of the box.

Question: In a UG installation, where will you often find the incoming copper cables?
Correct Answer: There is no copper provisioning on a UG install.

Question: Where do the copper cables come from in a UG installation?
Correct Answer: Copper cable comes from the ECLI.

Question: When routing the copper provisioning into the CSP, where should you ensure the black sheathing of the copper pair be aligned with.
Correct Answer: It's not important where the copper sheathing is stored.

Question: When routing the copper provisioning into the CSP, how much of the black outer sheathing should go into the CSP?
Correct Answer: 5 cm.

Question: In the case of an OH fibre cable installation, where should the CSP be mounted on the customer's premises?
Correct Answer: As high as possible on the external wall of the customer premises.

Question: During an OH installation who should you speak in advance and agree on the location of the CSP?
Correct Answer: Your manager.

Question: Which type of installation requires a gas block connector?
Correct Answer: ROC Drop Cable.

Question: During a UG installation, where is the CSP typically mounted on the customer's premises?
Correct Answer: Anywhere on the internal walls of the household.

Question: During a UG installation where are the incoming cables routed?
Correct Answer: The incoming cable is cleated to the wall coming from a telephone pole.

Question: When should the capping 25 be replaced during the installation?
Correct Answer: After sealing the CSP.

Question: A UG installation is the installation of cables routed from
Correct Answer: A telephone pole.

Question: Where should the incoming cable be inserted in the slack tray?
Correct Answer: Through the outer ring of slack management, counterclockwise.

Question: Which cable type requires you to flip the strain relief and screw in through the concave side?
Correct Answer: OH Corning Fibre Cable.

Question: Where in the CSP is the incoming cable slack stored?
Correct Answer: In the outer slack management clips.

Question: When populating a CSP with 4 fibres, which port does the first outgoing cable enter?
Correct Answer: Through any port.

Question: What position should the first splice be stored in the splice cradle?
Correct Answer: Anywhere.

Question: What position should the second splice be stored in the splice cradle?
Correct Answer: On top of the first splice in the middle position.

Question: When should the splice protector be slid over the exposed fibre?
Correct Answer: Before stripping the cable to bare fibre.

Question: Where should the spliced cable be stored?
Correct Answer: Use glue or tape to secure the spliced cable to the box.

Question: What is the recommended amount of cable to be uncoiled from CSP when splicing?
Correct Answer: 2.05 metre.

Question: If a splice fails, what process should be followed?
Correct Answer: Install a new Inside/Out Cable.

Question: What should be used to clean the exposed fibre before splicing?
Correct Answer: Any piece of cloth

Question: What is the purpose of a site investigation during the planning stage of a project?
Correct Answer: To ensure plans are current

Question: What action should be taken at the planning stage of a project to ensure that plans are current?
Correct Answer: Carry out a site investigation

Question: What must the asset owner do when information is requested about buried services in a proposed work area by an enquirer?
Correct Answer: Provide enquirers with up to date, readable plans for the proposed work area

Question: Who is responsible for providing enquirers with up to date, readable plans of all known services buried in the proposed work area?
Correct Answer: The asset owner

Question: Why must the date of issue be checked when receiving plans?
Correct Answer: To ensure plans are current

Question: What information should be checked to ensure plans are current?
Correct Answer: Date of issue

Question: Why must the location of services be marked clearly prior to excavation?
Correct Answer: To reduce the risk of damage to the service

Question: What action should be taken to reduce the risk of damage to underground services following a successful site survey using a detection devices on a grass verge?
Correct Answer: Mark the location of services using wooden pegs

Question: What action should be taken to reduce the risk of damage to underground services following a successful survey of the site using a detection devices?
Correct Answer: Mark the position of the service

Question: What is the purpose of marking the location of services following a successful survey of the site using a detection device?
Correct Answer: To reduce the risk of damage to the service

Question: What is the most likely consequence to members of the public following damage to an underground service that has not been marked?
Correct Answer: Inconvenience caused by disruption to service

Question: Why must services be traced and marked throughout the full extent of the site?
Correct Answer: To note the line of services as they change direction

Question: What is the colour of a low pressure polyethylene (PE) gas service?
Correct Answer: Yellow

Question: What service would typically be constructed using blue polyethylene pipe?
Correct Answer: Water

Question: What colour are low voltage electricity cables?
Correct Answer: Black

Question: What is the colour of the water service?
Correct Answer: Blue

Question: Which of the following services would be made from a blue pipe marked with brown stripes?
Correct Answer: Water in contaminated ground

Question: Which of the following services can be constructed using an earthenware pipe?
Correct Answer: Surface water drainage

Question: What is the colour of a high voltage (HV) electricity cable?
Correct Answer: Red

Question: Which of the following services would be laid within a green service duct?
Correct Answer: Cable television

Question: What colour are intermediate pressure (IP) gas mains?
Correct Answer: Orange

Question: Which of these should be included in a site-specific risk assessment?
Correct Answer: Identified hazards of work location

Question: What is the highest risk to personal safety while detecting and marking underground services on a public highway?
Correct Answer: Injury from road traffic

Question: What information within a site specific risk assessment would provide you with the precautions to take to safely reduce or eliminate risks?
Correct Answer: The control measure

Question: How is the risk rating calculated on a site specific risk assessment?
Correct Answer: Likelihood x severity

Question: What personal protective equipment (PPE) is used to reduce the risks associated with road traffic when detecting and marking underground services on a public highway?
Correct Answer: High visibility clothing

Question: When selecting an appropriate control measure to reduce a risk, what does the term "So far as is reasonably practicable" mean?
Correct Answer: The level of risk is balanced against cost, time or trouble

Question: What is the most common type of injury associated with damaging electric cables?
Correct Answer: Severe burns

Question: What is the most likely consequence of striking liquified petroleum gas (LPG)?
Correct Answer: Explosion

Question: What is the most common type of injury associated with damaging gas services?
Correct Answer: Severe burns

Question: What is the most common type of injury associated with damaging water mains?
Correct Answer: Hypothermia

Question: Which of the following items must not be removed under any circumstances when excavating near a water main?
Correct Answer: Trench blocks

Question: What is the main risk to workers following damage to a sewer pipe?
Correct Answer: Exposure to raw sewage

Question: What control measure should be used to reduce the risk of mechanical excavators damaging gas pipes?
Correct Answer: Do not use mechanical excavators within 500mm of a gas pipe

Question: Before excavating, what actions should be taken by operatives to reduce the risk of damaging underground utility apparatus and highway services?
Correct Answer: Refer to plans and survey the work area to identify and mark the position of services

Question: What equipment should be used to reduce the risk of trench collapse as a result of a damaged water service?
Correct Answer: Shoring equipment

Question: What documentation should be used to minimise the risk of damaging underground apparatus and services?
Correct Answer: Site specific risk assessments and method statements

Question: What personal protective equipment (PPE) can be worn to reduce the risks from damaged electric or gas services?
Correct Answer: Flame retardant overalls

Question: What action should be taken when an electrical cable crosses a trench that is more than 1m wide?
Correct Answer: Support the cable at 500mm intervals using strong timber and ratchet straps

Question: What is the purpose of informing the asset owner/operator in the event of damage to a telecommunications service?
Correct Answer: To ensure that the service is repaired properly

Question: What is the purpose of keeping people well clear of the work area in the event of an electricity cable being damaged?
Correct Answer: To ensure the safety of site personnel and members of the public

Question: What is the purpose of keeping people well clear of the work area in the event of a gas pipe being damaged?
Correct Answer: To ensure the safety of site personnel and members of the public

Question: Which of the following services would a conventional detection device be unable to locate?
Correct Answer: Polyethylene (PE) water service

Question: What can prevent a detection device used in power mode from being able to locate a live electric cable?
Correct Answer: Cables have direct current (DC) flowing through it

Question: What is an established limitation when using radio frequency detectors to locate metallic pipe?
Correct Answer: Other metallic objects can reradiate the signal and results may vary

Question: Which of the following services would a conventional detection device be unable to locate?
Correct Answer: Polyethylene (PE) gas service

Question: Which of the following will prevent a detection device, used in power mode, from being able to locate a live electric cable?
Correct Answer: Cables where there is little or no current flowing

Question: Why might it be difficult to locate a telecommunication cable when using radio frequency detectors?
Correct Answer: The cable is too short to radiate a traceable signal

Question: Which of the following statements is a feature of the Provision and Use of Work Equipment Regulations (PUWER)?
Correct Answer: The employer is responsible for suitability of work equipment

Question: How often should detection equipment undergo testing and recalibration?
Correct Answer: Dependant on the manufacturer‚'s instructions

Question: What document will provide an operative with the specific checks to ensure that the selected equipment is fit for purpose before it is used?
Correct Answer: The manufacturer‚'s instructions.

Question: Why should an operative consider the conditions and risks that exist in the intended workplace when selecting equipment?
Correct Answer: To ensure that it is suitable for its intended use

Question: Why must the person selecting detection methods have a good understanding of the available equipment and its limitations?
Correct Answer: To ensure the equipment is fit for purpose

Question: Who is responsible for the suitability of work equipment?
Correct Answer: The employer

Question: What action should be taken if discrepancies are found between search results and site plans?
Correct Answer: Inform the asset owner to allow them to amend their records

Question: What action should be taken if the work completed changes the path or depth of a service and makes the current version of the plans inaccurate?
Correct Answer: Inform the asset owner and they should amend their records

Question: Why must the asset owner be contacted if a service is found to be located well away from its recorded position?
Correct Answer: To allow them to update their records

Question: Who can provide additional advice or assistance in the event that services recorded in a plan cannot be located using detection equipment?
Correct Answer: The asset owner

Question: What action should be taken where underground services cannot be found using detection equipment?
Correct Answer: Dig trial holes using safe techniques

Question: What action should be taken where underground services cannot be found using detection equipment or by digging multiple trial holes?
Correct Answer: Obtain more information from asset owner

Question: What is the purpose of site specific risk assessments?
Correct Answer: To identify the immediate hazards and risks associated with the work

Question: Why should work site surveys be carried out?
Correct Answer: To risk assess the location and decide the traffic management layout

Question: How should the appropriate traffic management layout and correct equipment be determined ahead of planned works?
Correct Answer: By carrying out a work site survey and site specific risk assessment

Question: What action must be taken where motorists cannot see the first sign (Road Works) due to limited visibility?
Correct Answer: Place additional signs

Question: What equipment should be used to provide light vehicle access to premises during excavation work on a footway?
Correct Answer: Footway boards

Question: What equipment must be provided to enable pedestrians to negotiate kerbs safely when diverted to temporary walkways in the carriageway?
Correct Answer: Footway ramps

Question: What traffic control equipment should be used for very short periods when manoeuvring plant or works vehicles on a low risk site?
Correct Answer: Stop works sign

Question: What equipment should be used to assist visually impaired people using an obstructed footway?
Correct Answer: Pedestrian barriers with a tapping rail

Question: On a site, what is the minimum clearance between a works vehicle and the works area on a 40mph road?
Correct Answer: 5 metres

Question: What is the main factor to consider when selecting temporary traffic control?
Correct Answer: Traffic flow

Question: When using temporary traffic lights, what is the All Red time for a site length of 160m?
Correct Answer: 20 seconds

Question: Which of the following portable traffic signal controls reduces delay to vehicles by ensuring that the green time is adjusted automatically?
Correct Answer: Vehicle Actuated (VA)

Question: What type of work can be carried out at one or more intermittent stops, each lasting less than 60 minutes (30 minutes in Scotland)?
Correct Answer: Short-duration static work

Question: What type of work is carried out from a vehicle moving significantly slower than the general traffic?
Correct Answer: Mobile works

Question: When should mobile and short-duration static works be carried out?
Correct Answer: During periods of low risk when there is good visibility

Question: Which combination of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) should be used when removing signs from a carriageway and loading them onto a stationary vehicle?
Correct Answer: High-visibility clothing, helmet, safety gloves and safety footwear

Question: How should an employee determine the correct level of personal protective equipment (PPE) for signing, lighting and guarding activities?
Correct Answer: Carry out a site specific risk assessment

Question: What is the most appropriate combination of personal protective equipment (PPE) when setting out signing, lighting and guarding?
Correct Answer: High-visibility clothing, safety helmet, safety gloves and safety footwear

Question: What area of the site layout should plant be operated and manoeuvred in?
Correct Answer: Working space

Question: On a static site, what is the minimum clearance between a works vehicle and the works area on a 30mph road?
Correct Answer: 2m

Question: What should be used to segregate pedestrians from any works?
Correct Answer: A barrier system incorporating a tapping rail

Question: What is the minimum size of signage permitted on single carriageway roads with a speed limit of 40mph?
Correct Answer: 750mm

Question: What determines the siting distance to the first sign on a single carriageway static site?
Correct Answer: Speed of road

Question: What is the minimum siting distance to the first sign on a single carriageway 50mph road?
Correct Answer: 275m

Question: What is the minimum size of a temporary sign to use on a 50mph road?
Correct Answer: 750mm

Question: What is the minimum visibility distance to the first sign for a single carriageway with a speed limit of 50mph or more?
Correct Answer: 75

Question: When must the 'Road Works End' sign be used?
Correct Answer: Where the site length exceeds 50m

Question: When working on a footway, what is the ideal width to leave for pedestrians?
Correct Answer: 1.5m

Question: What is the absolute minimum width of the shuttle lane for normal traffic using Stop and Go traffic control?
Correct Answer: 3m

Question: What is the absolute minimum unobstructed width on an existing footway?
Correct Answer: 1m

Question: What is the minimum sideways safety zone on a road with a maximum speed limit of 40mph?
Correct Answer: 0.5m

Question: What is the main purpose of a safety zone?
Correct Answer: To protect site operatives from passing traffic

Question: What is the minimum width of a temporary walkway in the carriageway in order for a visually impaired person being guided to pass safely?
Correct Answer: 1.2 metres

Question: What is the maximum permitted height of warning lights on a 40mph road?
Correct Answer: 1.5 metres

Question: Which of the following speed limits are flashing warning lights not permitted to be used where the road is street lit?
Correct Answer: 50mph

Question: What is the maximum permitted height of warning lights on a 50mph road?
Correct Answer: 1.2 metres

Question: What is the recommended method to secure road signs?
Correct Answer: Use a sign with built-in weights

Question: How should pedestrian barriers be protected from continual unauthorised alterations and separation?
Correct Answer: Use clamps or ties that require a tool for removal

Question: What additional measures could be used to securely install pedestrian barriers in strong winds?
Correct Answer: Use ballast or cross-bracing

Question: What is the minimum distance the lower edge of all signs should be from ground level?
Correct Answer: 300mm

Question: What standard must the size, shape and style of signs and traffic cones comply with?
Correct Answer: TSRGD or TSR (NI)

Question: How often should equipment be checked at an attended site to ensure it is not damaged or dirty?
Correct Answer: At the start of work, regularly during work and before you leave site

Question: What sign should be set up first when installing advanced signing?
Correct Answer: Road works ahead

Question: Which sign should be placed immediately after the Road Works sign when using a Give and Take method of control?
Correct Answer: Road Narrows with Single File Traffic supplementary plate

Question: Which sign should be placed immediately after the ‚'Road Narrows‚' sign when using a ‚'Stop and Go‚' method of control?
Correct Answer: When Stop Sign Shows Wait Here

Question: What must be on site in the event that temporary traffic signals fail?
Correct Answer: Stop and go boards

Question: Which mode on temporary traffic signals can be used where one of the vehicle detectors has failed?
Correct Answer: Fixed time

Question: What is the possible cause of portable traffic signals not changing after one stream of traffic has passed, even though vehicles are waiting?
Correct Answer: Faulty detector (MVD)

Question: What is the maximum site length for using temporary traffic signals?
Correct Answer: 300m

Question: What action should be taken where drivers at the ‚'Wait Here‚' sign have poor visibility of portable traffic signals?
Correct Answer: Use an additional signal head on the approach

Question: Within what distance must portable traffic signals not be used near a railway level crossing with wig-wag traffic signals?
Correct Answer: 50 metres

Question: What action should be taken to keep traffic disruption to a minimum when installing and commissioning portable traffic signals?
Correct Answer: Signs and equipment should be placed ready for use and signals tested

Question: Where can you find information on the installation and set-up of portable traffic controls?
Correct Answer: The Pink Book

Question: Why must you have stop and go boards on site when installing, positioning, maintaining and removing portable traffic signals?
Correct Answer: In case the portable traffic signals breakdown

Question: When using temporary traffic lights, what is the All Red time for a site length of 230m?
Correct Answer: 25 seconds

Question: When using temporary traffic lights what alteration to the timings should be made where the last vehicle does not leave the shuttle lane at the start of the next green?
Correct Answer: Increase the all red periods

Question: What action should be taken where substantial queues begin to form and vehicles take more than one green period to get through the site?
Correct Answer: Adjust the maximum green setting incrementally

Question: What is the maximum coned length of a site when using Stop and Go traffic control where the traffic count is 63 vehicles counted over a 3 minute period?
Correct Answer: 200 metres

Question: When using priority signs to control traffic on a 40mph road, what distance should the required visibility be?
Correct Answer: 70 metres

Question: What is the maximum speed limit of a road or street when controlling traffic using the ‚'Give and Take‚' method?
Correct Answer: 30mph

Question: What are the characteristics of a rigid construction?
Correct Answer: A structure where the concrete road slab also performs the function of the base

Question: What is the configuration of a composite road?
Correct Answer: Composed of cement bound granular material with bituminous surfacing layers

Question: What is a modular footway?
Correct Answer: A structure where the surface is composed of setts, blocks, pavers or paving slabs

Question: What is a high duty footway?
Correct Answer: A principle route used by a large number of pedestrians

Question: What is a high amenity route?
Correct Answer: A route constructed to a high standard with decorative, textured or coloured finish

Question: What category of footway is a route which has been surfaced specifically for decorative purposes?
Correct Answer: High amenity

Question: What equipment should be used to cut a smooth and vertical edge on the surface of a flexible road?
Correct Answer: Road saw

Question: What equipment should be used to rough cut material in a rigid road surface?
Correct Answer: Road breaker

Question: What would be the most appropriate piece of equipment to excavate within the precautionary area of a tree?
Correct Answer: Suction excavator

Question: Which regulation places responsibility upon businesses and organisations to ensure that work equipment is constructed or adapted to be suitable for the purpose it is used or provided for?
Correct Answer: Provision and Use of Work Equipment Regulations (PUWER)

Question: Which document defines the specific service and calibration requirements of equipment?
Correct Answer: Manufacturer's instructions

Question: What document would define the requirements that equipment must meet to be considered fit for purpose for a specific task or activity?
Correct Answer: Method statement and Risk Assessments

Question: Which document provides information relating to the reuse of excavated materials?
Correct Answer: Specification for the Reinstatement of Openings in the Highway/Roads

Question: What is the purpose of HSG47?
Correct Answer: To provide guidance about the dangers of working near underground service

Question: Which document defines the typical construction layers of roads and footways?
Correct Answer: Specification for the Reinstatement of Openings in the Highway/Roads

Question: How should areas of high danger relating to excavation activities identified?
Correct Answer: Completing a risk assessment

Question: Why must excavations be inspected by a competent person at the start of each shift and after any events such as the fall of rock or earth?
Correct Answer: To identify any areas of high risk that may lead to collapse

Question: What is the purpose of conducting site specific risk assessments for excavation activities?
Correct Answer: To identify risks and the appropriate control measures

Question: What safety measure should be in place to reduce the risks from traffic when excavating in the highway?
Correct Answer: Traffic control methods

Question: What personal protective equipment (PPE) must be worn by operatives working outside of the working space in the highway?
Correct Answer: High visibility clothing

Question: What equipment should be used to maintain a route for pedestrians and provide light vehicles access to premises during excavation works in the footway?
Correct Answer: Footway boards

Question: What clothing should be worn to reduce the risk of burns?
Correct Answer: Multiple layers of flame-resistant clothing, including base layers

Question: What distance is the minimum safety exclusion zone for using a mechanical excavator near gas pipes?
Correct Answer: 500mm

Question: After conducting a survey of a work area on a grass verge, what additional precautions should be taken to ensure that the identified services are not damaged during excavation?
Correct Answer: Mark the line of identified services using wooden pegs

Question: What classifies an excavation patch to be a 'deep excavation'?
Correct Answer: Depth of cover over the apparatus is 1.5m

Question: What is the maximum width allowed for a trench to be classified as a 'narrow trench'?
Correct Answer: 300mm

Question: Which excavation or trench category describes excavations or trenches with a depth greater than 1.5 metres?
Correct Answer: Deep opening

Question: What method should be used to ensure that the excavation has sufficient space to accommodate the materials for reinstatement of construction layers?
Correct Answer: Measure the excavation to confirm the depth is in line with specification

Question: Which specification document provides guidance on the measures required to ensure that excavations can accommodate materials and equipment for compaction and reinstatement?
Correct Answer: Specification for the Reinstatement of Openings in the Highway/Roads

Question: What measures should be taken to ensure that excavations in flexible or composite roads can accommodate materials for reinstatement?
Correct Answer: Bitumen bound edges are smooth, vertical, and have no significant undercutting

Question: Which of the following actions could result in a metallic water main suddenly failing?
Correct Answer: Removal of thrust blocks

Question: Which of the following incidents could happen if a metallic gas main was damaged whilst excavating?
Correct Answer: Explosion

Question: What is the most likely injury to occur if a high voltage power cable is penetrated using a road breaker and chisel bit?
Correct Answer: Severe burns

Question: Who should be contacted in the first instance when a gas main has been damaged?
Correct Answer: The national gas emergency line

Question: What action should be taken where an unearthed damaged electric cable is found?
Correct Answer: Clear the area, contact the asset owner and stay clear until made safe

Question: Who should a damaged sewer pipe be reported to?
Correct Answer: The regional water authority

Question: How should exposed water pipes be protected during cold weather?
Correct Answer: Insulate using suitable pipe lagging

Question: What is the recommended distance that ratchet straps should be spaced when supporting cables within a temporary split duct which is suspended from a support beam?
Correct Answer: 1 metre

Question: Which of the following is the most appropriate method of supporting an exposed metallic gas pipe with a joint?
Correct Answer: Suspended from beam using a wooden spine and ratchet straps either side of the joint

Question: What document would provide a trained operative with the procedure to safely install and use trench support systems?
Correct Answer: Method statement

Question: Why should trench support equipment be used for an excavation in an area with significant traffic?
Correct Answer: Vibration from the traffic can lead to trench collapse

Question: When should trench support equipment be used?
Correct Answer: When identified within the site specific risk assessment

Question: What backfill material classification are graded granular materials?
Correct Answer: Class A

Question: When testing the moisture content of Class D materials, what would indicate that they were suitable for re-use?
Correct Answer: The material can be rolled to not less than the diameter and length of a standard pencil

Question: Which of these tests would determine if granular excavated materials are suitable for re-use as backfill?
Correct Answer: Field identification test number 3

Question: What classification of backfill material is organic matter such as peat?
Correct Answer: Class E

Question: What are Class E backfill materials?
Correct Answer: Unacceptable

Question: Which of these tests would determine if cohesive/granular materials with less than 50% granular content are suitable for reuse?
Correct Answer: Field identification test 2

Question: When is it acceptable to reuse excavated materials to reinstate an excavation?
Correct Answer: Where materials comply with backfill reinstatement classifications

Question: Why is the re-use of excavated materials as backfill encouraged in verges and unmade ground?
Correct Answer: It is more environmentally sustainable

Question: How can clay that has been excessively dried during site storage be re-used as a backfill material?
Correct Answer: It can be moistened to comply with the specification

Question: Why should re-usable excavated materials be segregated?
Correct Answer: To prevent contamination

Question: How should re-usable excavated materials be protected from becoming excessively dry?
Correct Answer: Keep covered at all times

Question: Why should re-usable excavated materials be stockpiled, covered and bund?
Correct Answer: To avoid excessive loss of fines

Question: How should excavated materials unsuitable for reuse be stored if they cannot be removed from site immediately?
Correct Answer: Segregated and stockpiled within the site barriers

Question: Why should Class E materials be stockpiled safely and separately from acceptable materials before removal?
Correct Answer: To prevent contamination

Question: Where should materials classed as unsuitable for reuse be taken once removed from site?
Correct Answer: Licensed recycling site

Question: Which of the following performance requirements will be the most effected following the use of unsuitable reinstatement material for the sub-base?
Correct Answer: Structural integrity

Question: What is the undertaker required to do if the reinstatement fails the specified performance requirements during a guarantee period following the use of unsuitable backfill materials?
Correct Answer: Restore the reinstatement to a compliant condition

Question: What is the most likely implication of using unsuitable materials as a backfill?
Correct Answer: Reinstatement fails specified performance requirements

